APEXPLANET INTERNSHIP — TASK 5 NOTES
DVWA WEB APPLICATION SECURITY ASSESSMENT

These are my practical notes while working on Task 5. The testing was done on my
local Kali Linux DVWA setup only.


SETUP / BASIC INFO
------------------

Target: DVWA
URL: http://127.0.0.1/DVWA/

OS: Kali Linux
Web server: Apache
Browser: Firefox

Main things used:
- DVWA
- Firefox
- Apache access/error logs
- Kali Linux terminal

Testing was done locally, so the source IP seen in the logs was 127.0.0.1.


SQL INJECTION
-------------

Started with the DVWA SQL Injection page and first tested a normal value.

Normal input:
1

This was used as the baseline.

Then tested:

1' OR '1'='1

This returned multiple records, showing that the input was being treated as part
of the SQL query instead of just being treated as normal data.

Also tested a UNION query:

1' UNION SELECT user,password FROM users -- 

This exposed usernames and password hashes from the DVWA database.

What I observed:
- Normal input returned the expected record.
- Boolean-based SQLi returned multiple records.
- UNION-based SQLi exposed database information.


Main fix:
Use prepared statements / parameterized queries instead of putting user input
directly into SQL queries. Input validation should also be applied.


STORED XSS
----------

Tested Stored XSS in DVWA.

Payload used:

<script>alert('XSS')</script>

The payload was stored by the application and executed when the affected content
was displayed again.

Important point:
Stored XSS is more persistent because the payload is saved by the application.
Anyone who opens the affected content can potentially be affected.


Main fixes:
- Validate and sanitize input.
- Encode output properly.
- Use CSP where appropriate.


REFLECTED XSS
-------------

Tested Reflected XSS using:

<script>alert('XSS')</script>

Here the input was reflected back by the application instead of being permanently
stored.

The JavaScript executed in the browser, confirming the vulnerability.

Important point:
The payload generally has to be delivered through a request or crafted URL, unlike
Stored XSS where the malicious input remains stored in the application.

Main fixes:
- Validate input.
- Use proper output encoding.
- Avoid directly placing untrusted input into HTML/JavaScript.
- CSP can provide an additional layer of protection.


CSRF
----

Tested CSRF in DVWA while logged in.

The test used a crafted request to trigger the password-change functionality.

Result:
The password-change operation was successfully triggered and DVWA showed
"Password Changed."

This showed that the state-changing request did not have sufficient CSRF protection.


Main fixes:
- Use unpredictable CSRF tokens.
- Check the token on the server.
- Use suitable SameSite cookie settings.
- Protect sensitive state-changing actions.


FINDINGS
--------

SQL Injection
- Severity: High
- Multiple records could be returned.
- Usernames and password hashes could be exposed.

Stored XSS
- Severity: Medium
- JavaScript was stored and executed.

Reflected XSS
- Severity: Medium
- JavaScript was reflected and executed in the browser.

CSRF
- Severity: Medium
- A crafted request could trigger a password change while the user was logged in.


INCIDENT RESPONSE PRACTICAL
---------------------------

For the incident-response part, I used the SQL Injection activity as the
simulated incident.

Incident:
SQL Injection request detected against DVWA.

Checked Apache access logs with:

sudo tail -n 30 /var/log/apache2/access.log

Also checked:

sudo tail -n 30 /var/log/apache2/error.log

The error log did not contain useful SQLi-specific information, but the access log
did show the request.

Important log entry contained the SQLi request:

GET /DVWA/vulnerabilities/sqli/?id=1%27+OR+%271%27%3D%271...

This corresponds to:

1' OR '1'='1

Source:
127.0.0.1

Screenshot:
07_Incident_Detection_Logs.png


CONTAINMENT
----------

For the simulated response, the affected SQL Injection functionality was treated
as isolated while the application was assessed.

The source IP was not blocked because 127.0.0.1 is the local machine being used
to access DVWA. Blocking it would stop access to the lab itself.


ERADICATION
-----------

The root cause was the vulnerable handling of user input in the SQL query.

The proper fix would be:
- Replace dynamic SQL with prepared statements.
- Use parameterized queries.
- Validate input.
- Check other database queries for similar problems.


RECOVERY
--------

Recovery was treated as a simulated step.

After applying the fix, the application should be tested again with the same SQLi
payload to confirm that it no longer works.

Logs should also be monitored after the fix to check for suspicious requests.


POST-INCIDENT NOTES
-------------------

The SQL Injection request was successfully identified in the Apache access log.

The response process followed:

Detection
   ↓
Containment
   ↓
Eradication
   ↓
Recovery
   ↓
Post-incident review

Main takeaway:
Finding a vulnerability is only one part of security testing. The logs and incident
response process are also important because they help identify what happened and
support the response after an attack.

